it's difficult in my generation for me
to talk to people about about my own
psychology both the things that make me
a little bit irregular a little bit
different from other people the older
generation you know my parents
generation was really shaped by Sigmund
Freud's philosophy I guess to a
staggering extent basic basic basic
assumptions like the idea that you can
solve your problems by talking about
them that you'll feel better about your
problems by talking about them these are
really kind of Freudian myths very very
simple things like that and very simple
ideas about the structure of the family
the nature of religion those ideas of
Freud have influenced people who've
never read Freud people who can't spell
Freud I don't know I guess my generation
was coming up with a slightly different
set of assumptions if you can for my
channel for a while you may have heard
me comment before that I do not feel
jealousy I don't experience jealousy and
it took me a long while to figure out
that this is just a psychological
irregularity of mine it's just one of
the ways in which I'm different from you
know the majority of other people and
you know it makes it very hard for me in
some circumstances to understand what
motivates other people why it is they're
doing what they're doing that sort of
thing now if you tell people who are
your close personal friends all right
here somebody's been your girlfriend for
a long time they may take that with
seriousness they may understand that
you're just trying to disclose something
about yourself and the way you think the
way you perceive the world but obviously
um if you're talking to someone who
doesn't know you that well they may
think you're boasting they may think
you're making a kind of claim to
morality under a judeo-christian heading
which I don't believe in you know and I
mean I don't see my own lack of this
feeling of this capacity to feel as an
advantage in many situations it makes it
more difficult for me to understand
my fellow human beings around me is a
lot of what they're doing is motivated
by jealousy or envy and I'd say that you
know what we call jealousy at bottom we
can also describe as a strange form of
sympathy right it's a way of
understanding other people again to me
it really is it really is alien I don't
want get into any samples there was one
example that'll that'll stay with me
forever where I had a co-worker who
hated me I didn't know why I couldn't
guess why I just didn't know what her
problem was with me and my very last day
at work she screamed at me and what it
was was that she imagined falsely that I
was getting paid more than she was this
was not true in fact but there were
reasons why she thought that there were
bits of information she had
misinterpreted and also that she'd the
way she what she did with that
information and the way she bitterly
viciously hated me she really felt
jealousy in that sense and I you know I
thought weren't her circumstance I would
feel that way at all I remember there
was once a lecture from a guy who was
actually an ex Buddhist monk and since
then I found him on the Internet he
actually went back to being a Buddhist
monk so at that time he was a layman but
he was a former Buddhist monk future
future Buddhist monk um but in what this
guy gave a lecture at a Buddhist
monastery and he was talking about you
know jealousy and envy and everybody in
the audience except for me was
absolutely relating to and digging what
he was saying he gave this um he gave
this example of a woman it was a Chinese
woman in the example obviously this is a
very ethnically mixed crowd but a lot of
Chinese people and some Sri Lankans some
Buddhist from other parts of Asia and he
was giving this example of a woman whose
husband came home one day and said that
they had to buy a more expensive
dishwasher you know why because he found
out that some friends of theirs I had a
more expensive dishwasher than they had
I'm sorry just Kramer actually it was
the washing machine for clothes clothes
washing machine sorry just distant
memory now and the the you know the wife
asked she went to the Buddhist monk for
backup and asked why can't we just be
happy for them and everyone in the crowd
except me is completely digging this
completely relating to this as like a
major life experience when yeah yeah you
know they absolutely know what the monk
is talking about they understand this
conflict between husband and wife and
the fact that the wife would go to a
Buddhist monk to try to deal with this
as an ethical issue it's completely
alien to me on the one hand if someone
else is doing better than me I can just
feel happy for them I can also just feel
indifference I can also feel contempt
for them you know but there's a whole
not of human emotions there that I don't
get that I don't relate to and where I
really have to use my imagination not
even I get to use logic to try to think
the way other people think and this same
guy in the same lecture this Buddhist
monk or former Buddhist monk he was
talking about walking down the street
and feeling intense jealousy because
other people better looking at you like
in particular ways someone has nicer
legs than you and like everyone in the
audience a way above ninety percent they
were absolutely on his wavelength and
agreeing with him and you know
vocalizing saying yeah you know the new
one who's dying I was sitting there
thinking what he was describing a normal
daily occurrence when walking in the
street never once in my life not as a
child not as a teenager not as an adult
and it's this is not about morality this
isn't something I chose this isn't
something I decided this isn't something
i cultivated this is really just a
difference between me and a lot of other
human beings including people within my
own family I just don't think it's a
common trait
and I don't know you know I've you know
I assume it's part of my nature but who
knows maybe it's a result of even maybe
there's some some cause and effect to it
I mean I've mentioned before you know I
have a very unusual tendency to lucid
dreaming basically all of my dreams are
lucid because it's say that while I'm
dreaming I'm aware that it's a dream
that it's not the real world and I can
therefore if I want to manipulate and
control the false reality of my dreams
that's rare but that's documented and
studied there are people like that it's
a psychological abnormality what I was
thinking this evening when seeing a lot
of behavior on the internet that I
consider insane that from my perspective
is insane but I had to reflect on maybe
there's some connection between this
lack of jealousy and me is lack of envy
just as an impulse just as a faculty
again it's not a moral issue for me
maybe there's something connecting that
so how I regard Fame and how how alien
it seems to me the people who are really
chasing Fame now here I've got to put in
a caveat if you guys watch my youtube
channel and you think of doing this to
get famous I completely understand why
you would think that about me I mean a
lot of my videos are very boring
lectures their morality lectures in a
lot of ways what I'm doing in these
videos is similar to what i would have
been doing as a Buddhist monk if I had
stayed on that career path I also could
have been a great rabbi you know and in
some ways maybe it's a motor stand-up
comedy but you know if you stick around
I think if you keep watching the videos
I think you will come to understand but
know this stuff is not motivated by a
quest for fame and there's a sense in
which I really don't even understand
what other people are doing when they're
motivated by you know when they're
turned on by the possibility of Fame
what
it's a little bit of Fame or a lot of
Fame I mean the fame thing apparently it
seems like gambling you know a
compulsive gambler can be turned on by
can be excited by a little bit of money
or a lot of money there's something
about the chance itself there's
something about the nature of gambling
that you know maybe the scale doesn't
matter so much whether it's five dollars
or fifty lawyers or five hundred dollars
that captivates them I think for a lot
of these people it doesn't matter if
they're only famous to 200 people that
completely captivates them perhaps as
much as 2,000 or two million will never
know a lot of these people are never
going to get up to those those larger
numbers again I mean there must be what
is jealousy jealousy has to start from a
certain kind of sympathy it has to start
from understanding the position that I'm
in and the position that you're in and
the difference between them and some
kind of that I am a connection between
them and then obviously there's a desire
to either destroy the other person or
elevate yourself i guess i guess the
root of it is that one person feels
diminished by the other person's success
or greatness or attractiveness any
positive quality in the other person as
the sense of a loss of one's own
identity in recognizing the other
person's identity and let's say i don't
have that at all I can't even once
remember in childhood I can never
remember feeling bad because someone
else was more handsome than me I can
never remember feeling bad because
someone else was smarter than me I can
never remember feeling bad not even once
not even as a small child feeling bad
because someone else was better than i
was at sports never and i think
obviously that must be a very natural
human impulse I mean it must be
something that
these people to try to be smarter and
more beautiful and better at sports I
mean it must if you scale it up to the
millions of people for our site as a
whole I presumably it has for many
positive effects on people's people's
lives you know um so I guess also maybe
even the name itself like words like
jealousy and envy maybe those are bad
categories to use because they lead us
to focus entirely on the negative aspect
of the of the pattern of behavior of
this way of seeing the world whatever it
is unnamed and you know to me kind of
unknowable you know just to give one
example I think there are a lot of
people who will never get it and it's
fine i'm not complaining but they'll
never understand that for me
subjectively when I disagreed with
unnatural vegan about castration of dogs
that really was about castration of dogs
that really was about domestication
animals for me you know there were a
bunch of other issues bundled up in that
including even my history with Buddhism
a bunch of other between her and myself
there were a bunch of other issues that
could ended up being part of the
controversy but for me it really was
about those issues first and foremost
the domestication of animals castration
of dogs killing cows to feed beef to our
cats etc that set of issues that really
was what I cared about that really it
was what I wanted to speak on and for me
it was not in any way motivated by Fame
or by you know wanting to denigrate her
but I completely understand that for the
vast majority of people seeing this
they'll they'll never be able to see it
the way I see it
and I guess that's just okay I continue
to make comments you know defending a
natural vegan because even though I'm a
critic of her work in some respects of
course I appreciate it in others which
you've heard me say on this channel both
are completely sincere I wrote a comic
here I'm going to read out this is a
comment on YouTube but it was a comment
made to someone who is to be blunt to
complete idiot and in his replies you
made it clear they had no interest in
such thing but anyway just a couple days
going november eighth I wrote this
comment which I'll now just read so this
is a comment defending unnatural vegan
against someone who had just been you
know insulting her frankly offering a
criticism or that I think has no
validity I am I quote you seem to be
unaware that unnatural vegan and I are
at opposite extremes of the vegan
spectrum sort decoration so he was also
talking about me and unnatural rina
vegan as if were members of the same
team as if we're on the same side so I
opened by saying you seem to unaware
were actually at opposite extremes in
some ways I disagree with her and
believe me on a ballast yell I've had
some very strongly worded disagreements
of their but I think you start on a
false footing by claiming that she's
quote-unquote not vegan she's a real
vegan but she's a vegan you happen to
disagree with is she an idiot well on
some topics that I care about she has
definitely being idiotic plenty of
people adore her but I think they just
have different interests for myself
saying that she and I both feel overly
confident in our opinions isn't actually
a valid criticism you really need to
take the next step to show that we're
confident about things we ought not to
be confident about do you know more than
me about cambodia about First Nations I
doubt it do you know more about a net
sorry do you know more than unnatural
vegan about splenda or about pesticides
I doubt it different people are
confident about different things saying
that you feel intimidated by that
is just an extremely weak line for you
to take although you seem to mistake
that weakness for strength so I'm saying
to him that he mistakes his own weakness
for strength so um I don't know it's
probably not worth my explaining how it
is this comment relates to what I've
just been reflecting on any great length
but um to me I do see people attacking
other youtubers with a sense of who do
you think you are don't you know who I
think I am and a sense of jealousy I
think it is jealousy that someone else
displays confidence this and including a
natural beacon ear of attacking her for
being overly confident and the other
hand to use the same example with a
natural vegan I think many people are
drawn to her and become her fans
precisely because she shows a certain
kind of self-effacing lack of confidence
she often has kind of bumbling informal
videos i watch one recently where she
was talking about which shampoo she uses
it's an absolutely no interest to me
sorry I'm not not criticizing I'm not
saying it's wrong or bad but I said a
lot of people enjoyed seeing her in this
kind of bumbling self-effacing a very
humble way talking about shampoo but to
me it's boring stuff um but I think I
mean it's some kind of insecurity that
again I don't have I don't relate to
that people look at a natural vegan and
think she's smug that she's too
confident that she acts like an expert
and a lot of these things again I happen
to disagree with her passionately about
some topics I really care about but I
think in some cases I don't know she did
a lot of research on splenda on
artificial sweeteners I think she's
entitled to speak with real confidence
on that given that she did the research
even if she's wrong or even if you
happen to disagree with her you know I
don't react to it in that way at all I
think she did a lot
research on some pesticides she made
some videos talking with pesticides and
use of genetically modified crops why
wouldn't she speak with this kind of
confidence on that you know um and yeah
on the other hand I see that I see
people wanting to lash out at figures
they feel are too confident etc etc and
I guess on the other hand the lashing
out itself is just justified by the same
I think ultimately jealous impulse on
the one hand to to try to abase others
then and at the same time to exalt
yourself in the pursuit of this micro
Fame you know so I'm in the middle of
all that and people today just now again
people accused me of being jealous of
Charles a vegan cheetah and there are
both shallow and profound ways in which
they will never understand how
unimaginable that is to me it's not just
the case that I do not wish i had
Charles's life I can't imagine being a
person who wish they had trials of life
it's not just that I don't envy him on a
really deep level I can't even really
understand what and being him would be
like because I honestly think I've never
envied anyone and I don't know
may just be a disability